Outlook Documentation (#1641)
elastic/connectors-python: docs/reference/outlook.md

# Outlook Connector

The [Elastic Outlook connector](../connectors/sources/outlook.py) is built with the Elastic connectors Python framework and is available as a self-managed [connector client](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/enterprise-search/current/build-connector.html).

## Availability and prerequisites

This connector is available as a **connector client** from the **Python connectors framework**. To use this connector, satisfy all [connector client requirements](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/enterprise-search/master/build-connector.html).

This connector is in **beta** and is subject to change. The design and code is less mature than official GA features and is being provided as-is with no warranties. Beta features are not subject to the support SLA of official GA features.

## Usage

To use this connector as a **connector client**, use the **Outlook** tile from the connectors list OR **Customized connector** workflow.

For additional operations, see [Usage](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/enterprise-search/master/connectors-usage.html).

> ## Connecting to Outlook

Reviewer: Can we add an intro sentence that there are 2 different ways to connect to outlook, from what I understand it's either:  `Connect to Exchange Server` or `Connect to Office365 Outlook` (in the cloud)

Author: Sure

### Connect to Exchange Server

> To order to connect to Outlook, the connector fetches Active Directory users with the help of `ldap3` python library.

Reviewer: Typo `To` -> `In` 

Maybe let's be specific In order to connect to Outlook on Exchange Server (or sth like that)...

### Connect to Office365 Outlook

> To order to connect to Outlook, user needs to create an Azure application as follows:

Reviewer: Typo `To` -> `In` 

Let's ne specific that this Outlook is the "cloud" version, as opposed to Exchange Server version

1. Log into Microsoft [Azure Portal](https://portal.azure.com) and click on App registrations and register an application.
2. From Overview tab, keep `Client ID` and `Tenant ID` handy.
3. Go to **Certificates & secrets** and create a new client secret.

> 4. Before configuring `Client ID`, `Tenant ID` and `Client Secret` in elastic, from API permissions tab - add below permission to fetch the Outlook content,

Reviewer 2: This is a little confusing, can't we simply say 'Add the following permissions in the **API permissions tab**...'?

    - Add permissions -> APIs my organization uses -> Office 365 Exchange Online -> full_access_as_app (Application permission)

> 5. Now, user can configure `Client ID`, `Tenant ID` and `Client Secret` values to Outlook connector.

Reviewer 2: Is this part of the Oauth App creation process, if not, consider removing.

Reviewer 2: Could add a step here that says "Make note of `Client ID`, `Tenant ID` and `Client Secret`" and consider removing step 2 to avoid redundancy

Reviewer 2: Example edit:

To integrate with the Outlook connector using Azure, follow these steps to create and configure an Azure application:

1. Navigate to the [Azure Portal](https://portal.azure.com/) and log in using your credentials.
2. Click on **App registrations** to register a new application.
3. Navigate to the **Overview** tab. Make a note of the Client ID and Tenant ID.
4. Click on the **Certificates & secrets** tab and create a new client secret. Keep this secret handy.
5. Go to the **API permissions** tab.
   - Click on "Add permissions."
   - Choose "APIs my organization uses."
   - Search for and select "Office 365 Exchange Online."
   - Add the `full_access_as_app` application permission.
6. You can now use the Client ID, Tenant ID, and Client Secret you've noted to configure the Outlook connector.

Author: Yes, this looks clean! 👍

#### `Outlook data source`  (required)

Dropdown to determine Outlook platform type: `outlook_cloud` or `outlook_server`. Default value is `outlook_cloud`.

#### `Tenant ID`  (required if data source is outlook_cloud)

The Tenant ID for the Azure account hosting the Outlook instance.

#### `Client ID`  (required if data source is outlook_cloud)

The Client ID to authenticate with Outlook instance.

#### `Client Secret Value`  (required if data source is outlook_cloud)

The Client Secret value to authenticate with Outlook instance.

#### `Exchange Server` (required if data source is outlook_server)

IP address to connect with Exchange server. Example: `127.0.0.1`

#### `Active Directory Server` (required if data source is outlook_server)

IP address to fetch users from Exchange Active Directory to fetch data. Example: `127.0.0.1`

#### `Exchange server username` (required if data source is outlook_server)

Username to authenticate with Exchange server.

#### `Exchange server password` (required if data source is outlook_server)

Password to authenticate with Exchange server.

#### `Exchange server domain name` (required if data source is outlook_server)

> Domain name for Exchange server users such as gmail.com, exchange.local.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Domain name for Exchange server users such as `gmail.com` or `exchange.local`.
```

#### `Enable SSL`

Whether SSL verification will be enabled. Default value is `False`.

**Note:** This configuration is applicable for `Outlook Server` only.

#### `SSL certificate` (required if ssl is enabled)

Content of SSL certificate. Example certificate:

-----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----
MIID+jCCAuKgAwIBAgIGAJJMzlxLMA0GCSqGSIb3DQEBCwUAMHoxCzAJBgNVBAYT
...
7RhLQyWn2u00L7/9Omw=

> -----END CERTIFICATE-----

Reviewer: This should be in a code block

# Outlook Connector

The [Elastic Outlook connector](../connectors/sources/outlook.py) is built with the Elastic connectors Python framework and is available as a self-managed [connector client](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/enterprise-search/current/build-connector.html).

## Availability and prerequisites

This connector is available as a **connector client** from the **Python connectors framework**. To use this connector, satisfy all [connector client requirements](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/enterprise-search/master/build-connector.html).

This connector is in **beta** and is subject to change. The design and code is less mature than official GA features and is being provided as-is with no warranties. Beta features are not subject to the support SLA of official GA features.

## Usage

To use this connector as a **connector client**, use the **Outlook** tile from the connectors list OR **Customized connector** workflow.

For additional operations, see [Usage](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/enterprise-search/master/connectors-usage.html).

## Connecting to Outlook

> Outlook connector supports both cloud and server platforms. Connector uses different ways to connect with them and following are the Authentication process to connect to Outlook:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Outlook connector supports both cloud (Office365 Outlook) and on-premises (Exchange Server) platforms.
```
